Refresh AITK Overview Page (#8421)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/intelligentapps/overview.md

---
ContentId: 164299e8-d27d-40b9-8b8d-a6e05df8ac69

> DateApproved: 12/11/2024

Author: Sure, I changed to today's date.

### AI Engineers & Data Scientists
* **AI engineers** fine-tuning models for specific domains and deploying to production
* **Data scientists** evaluating model performance and comparing different approaches
* **ML engineers** converting and optimizing models for efficient local deployment

### Researchers & Educators
* **AI researchers** experimenting with different models and prompt engineering techniques
* **Educators** teaching AI concepts and demonstrating model capabilities
* **Students** learning about generative AI and hands-on model interaction

### Key Use Cases
* Explore and evaluate models from providers like Anthropic, OpenAI, and GitHub
* Run models locally using ONNX and Ollama for privacy and cost control
* Build and test agents with prompt generation and MCP tool integrations
* Convert and optimize models for deployment across different hardware configurations

## Install and setup

### Quick Installation

The fastest way to get started is through the VS Code Extensions marketplace:

> <a class="install-extension-btn" href="vscode:extension/ms-windows-ai-studio.windows-ai-studio">Install the AI Toolkit for VS Code</a>

> ### Manual Installation

Reviewer: This is quite an elaborate section to install an extension. Do you need so much detail in the overview page?

1. Launch Visual Studio Code.

> 2. Open the Extensions view by selecting **View** > **Extensions** or pressing **Ctrl+Shift+X**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the Extensions view by selecting **View** > **Extensions** or pressing `kb(workbench.view.extensions)`.
```

>    Alternatively, select the Extensions icon from the VS Code Activity Bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, select the Extensions icon in the Activity Bar.
```

> 3. Search for **AI Toolkit** in the search box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Search for "AI Toolkit" in the search box.
```

>    ![install](./images/overview/install_1.png)

Reviewer: Add a descriptive alt text that starts with "Screenshot showing ..". Do this for all screenshots.

Author: Updated

4. Select **AI Toolkit for Visual Studio Code** from the search results and select **Install**.

>    ![install](./images/overview/install_2.png)

Reviewer: Image links are case sensitive. Make sure to name your images consistently - suggest using lowercase.

> 5. After successful installation, the AI Toolkit icon appears in the VS Code Activity Bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After successful installation, the AI Toolkit icon appears in the Activity Bar.
```

   ![install](./images/overview/install_4.png)

> [!TIP]
> Choose between the **Release** version for stable features or the **Pre-Release** version for early access to new capabilities. You can switch between versions anytime after installation.

> ### Version Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Version management
```

> #### Switch to a Specific Version

Reviewer: Is there a reason why you're describing this in detail here? This information is also available in the Extension Marketplace doc: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/configure/extensions/extension-marketplace#_install-an-extension

By default, VS Code automatically updates AI Toolkit. To install a specific version:

1. Open the **Extensions** view from the VS Code Activity Bar.
2. Search for **AI Toolkit**.
3. On the AI Toolkit page, select the dropdown arrow next to **Uninstall**.
4. Choose **Install Specific Version...** from the dropdown.
5. Select your desired version from the list.

   ![install](./images/overview/install_5.png)

> [!TIP]
> Check the **What's New** section during installation to see detailed features for each version.

> #### Install Pre-Release Version

Reviewer: Same as above, this info is also available in the Extension Marketplace doc: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/configure/extensions/extension-marketplace#_install-a-prerelease-extension-version
